A (named a in the English, and most commonly ä in other languages).

Defn: The first letter of the English and of many other alphabets.
The capital A of the alphabets of Middle and Western Europe, as also
the small letter (a), besides the forms in Italic, black letter,
etc., are all descended from the old Latin A, which was borrowed from
the Greek Alpha, of the same form; and this was made from the first
letter (Aleph, and itself from the Egyptian origin. The Aleph was a
consonant letter, with a guttural breath sound that was not an
element of Greek articulation; and the Greeks took it to represent
their vowel Alpha with the ä sound, the Phoenician alphabet having no
vowel symbols. This letter, in English, is used for several different
vowel sounds. See Guide to pronunciation, §§ 43-74. The regular long
a, as in fate, etc., is a comparatively modern sound, and has taken
the place of what, till about the early part of the 17th century, was
a sound of the quality of ä (as in far).

2. (Mus.)

Defn: The name of the sixth tone in the model major scale (that in
C), or the first tone of the minor scale, which is named after it the
scale in A minor. The second string of the violin is tuned to the A
in the treble staff.
 -- A sharp (A#) is the name of a musical tone intermediate between A
and B.
 -- A flat (A) is the name of a tone intermediate between A and G.

A per se Etym: (L. per se by itself), one preëminent; a nonesuch.
[Obs.]
O fair Creseide, the flower and A per se Of Troy and Greece. Chaucer.

A
A (# emph. #).

1. Etym: [Shortened form of an. AS. an one. See One.]

Defn: An adjective, commonly called the indefinite article, and
signifying one or any, but less emphatically.

Defn: "At a birth"; "In a word"; "At a blow". Shak.

Note: It is placed before nouns of the singular number denoting an
individual object, or a quality individualized, before collective
nouns, and also before plural nouns when the adjective few or the
phrase great many or good many is interposed; as, a dog, a house, a
man; a color; a sweetness; a hundred, a fleet, a regiment; a few
persons, a great many days. It is used for an, for the sake of
euphony, before words beginning with a consonant sound [for exception
of certain words beginning with h, see An]; as, a table, a woman, a
year, a unit, a eulogy, a ewe, a oneness, such a one, etc. Formally
an was used both before vowels and consonants.

2. Etym: [Originally the preposition a (an, on).]

Defn: In each; to or for each; as, "twenty leagues a day", "a hundred
pounds a year", "a dollar a yard", etc.

A
A, prep. Etym: [Abbreviated form of an (AS. on). See On.]

1. In; on; at; by. [Obs.] "A God's name." "Torn a pieces." "Stand a
tiptoe." "A Sundays" Shak. "Wit that men have now a days." Chaucer.
"Set them a work." Robynson (More's Utopia)

2. In process of; in the act of; into; to; -- used with verbal
substantives in -ing which begin with a consonant. This is a
shortened form of the preposition an (which was used before the vowel
sound); as in a hunting, a building, a begging. "Jacob, when he was a
dying" Heb. xi. 21. "We'll a birding together." " It was a doing."
Shak. "He burst out a laughing." Macaulay. The hyphen may be used to
connect a with the verbal substantive (as, a-hunting, a-building) or
the words may be written separately. This form of expression is now
for the most part obsolete, the a being omitted and the verbal
substantive treated as a participle.

A
A. Etym: [From AS. of off, from. See Of.]

Defn: Of. [Obs.] "The name of John a Gaunt." "What time a day is it "
Shak. "It's six a clock." B. Jonson.

A
A.

Defn: A barbarous corruption of have, of he, and sometimes of it and
of they. "So would I a done" "A brushes his hat." Shak.

A
A.

Defn: An expletive, void of sense, to fill up the meter
A merry heart goes all the day, Your sad tires in a mile-a. Shak.

A-
A-

Defn: A, as a prefix to English words, is derived from various
sources. (1) It frequently signifies on or in (from an, a forms of
AS. on), denoting a state, as in afoot, on foot, abed, amiss, asleep,
aground, aloft, away (AS. onweg), and analogically, ablaze, atremble,
etc. (2) AS. of off, from, as in adown (AS. ofdüne off the dun or
hill). (3) AS. a- (Goth. us-, ur-, Ger. er-), usually giving an
intensive force, and sometimes the sense of away, on, back, as in
arise, abide, ago. (4) Old English y- or i- (corrupted from the AS.
inseparable particle ge-, cognate with OHG. ga-, gi-, Goth. ga-),
which, as a prefix, made no essential addition to the meaning, as in
aware. (5) French à (L. ad to), as in abase, achieve. (6) L. a, ab,
abs, from, as in avert. (7) Greek insep. prefix a without, or
privative, not, as in abyss, atheist; akin to E. un-.

Note: Besides these, there are other sources from which the prefix a
takes its origin.

A 1
A 1. A registry mark given by underwriters (as at Lloyd's) to ships
in first-class condition. Inferior grades are indicated by A 2 and A
3.

Note: A 1 is also applied colloquially to other things to imply
superiority; prime; first-class; first-rate.

AAM
Aam, n. Etym: [D. aam, fr. LL. ama; cf. L. hama a water bucket, Gr.

Defn: A Dutch and German measure of liquids, varying in different
cities, being at Amsterdam about 41 wine gallons, at Antwerp 36½, at
Hamburg 38¼. [Written also Aum and Awm.]

AARD-VARK
Aard"-vark`, n. Etym: [D., earth-pig.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An edentate mammal, of the genus Orycteropus, somewhat
resembling a pig, common in some parts of Southern Africa. It burrows
in the ground, and feeds entirely on ants, which it catches with its
long, slimy tongue.

AARD-WOLF
Aard"-wolf`, n. Etym: [D, earth-wolf] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A carnivorous quadruped (Proteles Lalandii), of South Africa,
resembling the fox and hyena. See Proteles.

AARONIC; AARONICAL
Aa*ron"ic, Aa*ron"ic*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to Aaron, the first high priest of the Jews.

AARON'S ROD
Aar"on's rod`. Etym: [See Exodus vii. 9 and Numbers xvii. 8]

1. (Arch.)

Defn: A rod with one serpent twined around it, thus differing from
the caduceus of Mercury, which has two.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant with a tall flowering stem; esp. the great mullein, or
hag-taper, and the golden-rod.

AB-
Ab-. Etym: [Latin prep., etymologically the same as E. of, off. See
Of.]

Defn: A prefix in many words of Latin origin. It signifies from, away
, separating, or departure, as in abduct, abstract, abscond. See A-
(6).

AB
Ab, n. Etym: [Of Syriac origin.]

Defn: The fifth month of the Jewish year according to the
ecclesiastical reckoning, the eleventh by the civil computation,
coinciding nearly with August. W. Smith.

ABACA
Ab"a*ca, n. Etym: [The native name.]

Defn: The Manila-hemp plant (Musa textilis); also, its fiber. See
Manila hemp under Manila.

ABACINATE
A*bac"i*nate, v.t. Etym: [LL. abacinatus, p.p. of abacinare; ab off +
bacinus a basin.]

Defn: To blind by a red-hot metal plate held before the eyes. [R.]

ABACINATION
A*bac`i*na"tion, n.

Defn: The act of abacinating. [R.]

ABACISCUS
Ab`a*cis"cus, n. Etym: [Gr.Abacus.] (Arch.)

Defn: One of the tiles or squares of a tessellated pavement; an
abaculus.

ABACIST
Ab"a*cist, n. Etym: [LL abacista, fr. abacus.]

Defn: One who uses an abacus in casting accounts; a calculator.

ABACK
A*back", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + back; AS. on bæc at, on, or toward
the back. See Back.]

1. Toward the back or rear; backward. "Therewith aback she started."
Chaucer.

2. Behind; in the rear. Knolles.

3. (Naut.)

Defn: Backward against the mast;-said of the sails when pressed by
the wind. Totten. To be taken aback. (a) To be driven backward
against the mast; -- said of the sails, also of the ship when the
sails are thus driven. (b) To be suddenly checked, baffled, or
discomfited. Dickens.

ABACK
Ab"ack, n.

Defn: An abacus. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

ABACTINAL
Ab*ac"ti*nal, a. Etym: [L. ab + E. actinal.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Pertaining to the surface or end opposite to the mouth in a
radiate animal; -- opposed to actinal. "The aboral or abactinal
area." L. Agassiz.

ABACTION
Ab*ac"tion, n.

Defn: Stealing cattle on a large scale. [Obs.]

ABACTOR
Ab*ac"tor, n. Etym: [L., fr. abigere to drive away; ab+agere to
drive.] (Law)

Defn: One who steals and drives away cattle or beasts by herds or
droves. [Obs.]

ABACULUS
A*bac"u*lus, n.; pl. Abaculi. Etym: [L., dim. of abacus.] (Arch.)

Defn: A small tile of glass, marble, or other substance, of various
colors, used in making ornamental patterns in mosaic pavements.
Fairholt.

ABACUS
Ab"a*cus, n. E. pl. Abacuses ; L. pl. Abaci. Etym: [L. abacus, abax,
Gr.

1. A table or tray strewn with sand, anciently used for drawing,
calculating, etc. [Obs.]

2. A calculating table or frame; an instrument for performing
arithmetical calculations by balls sliding on wires, or counters in
grooves, the lowest line representing units, the second line, tens,
etc. It is still employed in China.

3. (Arch.)
(a) The uppermost member or division of the capital of a column,
immediately under the architrave. See Column.
(b) A tablet, panel, or compartment in ornamented or mosaic work.

4. A board, tray, or table, divided into perforated compartments, for
holding cups, bottles, or the like; a kind of cupboard, buffet, or
sideboard. Abacus harmonicus (Mus.), an ancient diagram showing the
structure and disposition of the keys of an instrument. Crabb.

ABADA
Ab"a*da, n. Etym: [Pg., the female rhinoceros.]

Defn: The rhinoceros. [Obs.] Purchas.

ABADDON
A*bad"don, n. Etym: [Heb. abaddon destruction, abyss, fr. abad to be
lost, to perish.]

1. The destroyer, or angel of the bottomless pit; -- the same as
Apollyon and Asmodeus.

2. Hell; the bottomless pit. [Poetic]
In all her gates, Abaddon rues Thy bold attempt. Milton.

ABAFT
A*baft", prep. Etym: [Pref. a-on + OE. baft, baften, biaften, AS.
beæftan; be by + æftan behind. See After, Aft, By.] (Naut.)

Defn: Behind; toward the stern from; as, abaft the wheelhouse. Abaft
the beam. See under Beam.

ABAFT
A*baft", adv. (Naut.)

Defn: Toward the stern; aft; as, to go abaft.

ABAISANCE
A*bai"sance, n. Etym: [For obeisance; confused with F. abaisser, E.
abase]

Defn: Obeisance. [Obs.] Jonson.

ABAISER
A*bai"ser, n.

Defn: Ivory black or animal charcoal. Weale.

ABAIST
A*baist", p.p.

Defn: Abashed; confounded; discomfited. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ABALIENATE
Ab*al"ien*ate, v.t. Etym: [L. abalienatus, p.p. of abalienare; ab +
alienus foreign, alien. See Alien.]

1. (Civil Law)

Defn: To transfer the title of from one to another; to alienate.

2. To estrange; to withdraw. [Obs.]

3. To cause alienation of (mind). Sandys.

ABALIENATION
Ab*al`ien*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. abalienatio: cf. F. abalianation.]

Defn: The act of abalienating; alienation; estrangement. [Obs.]

ABALONE
Ab`a*lo"ne, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A univalve mollusk of the genus Haliotis. The shell is lined
with mother-of-pearl, and used for ornamental purposes; the sea-ear.
Several large species are found on the coast of California, clinging
closely to the rocks.

ABAND
A*band", v.t. Etym: [Contracted from abandon.]

1. To abandon. [Obs.]
Enforced the kingdom to aband. Spenser.

2. To banish; to expel. [Obs.] Mir. for Mag.

ABANDON
A*ban"don, v.t. [imp. & p.p. Abandoned; p.pr. & vb.n. Abandoning.]
Etym: [OF. abandoner, F.abandonner; a (L. ad)+bandon permission,
authority, LL. bandum, bannum, public proclamation, interdiction,
bannire to proclaim, summon: of Germanic origin; cf. Goth. bandwjan
to show by signs, to designate OHG. banproclamation. The word meant
to proclaim, put under a ban, put under control; hence, as in OE., to
compel, subject, or to leave in the control of another, and hence, to
give up. See Ban.]

1. To cast or drive out; to banish; to expel; to reject. [Obs.]
That he might . . . abandon them from him. Udall.
Being all this time abandoned from your bed. Shak.

2. To give up absolutely; to forsake entirely ; to renounce utterly;
to relinquish all connection with or concern on; to desert, as a
person to whom one owes allegiance or fidelity; to quit; to
surrender.
Hope was overthrown, yet could not be abandoned. I. Taylor.

3. Reflexively : To give (one's self) up without attempt at self-
control ; to yield (one's self) unrestrainedly ; -- often in a bad
sense.
He abandoned himself . . . to his favorite vice. Macaulay.

4. (Mar. Law)

Defn: To relinquish all claim to; -- used when an insured person
gives up to underwriters all claim to the property covered by a
policy, which may remain after loss or damage by a peril insured
against.

Syn.
 -- To give up; yield; forego; cede; surrender; resign; abdicate;
quit; relinquish; renounce; desert; forsake; leave; retire; withdraw
from.
 -- To Abandon, Desert, Forsake. These words agree in representing a
person as giving up or leaving some object, but differ as to the mode
of doing it. The distinctive sense of abandon is that of giving up a
thing absolutely and finally; as, to abandon one's friends, places,
opinions, good or evil habits, a hopeless enterprise, a shipwrecked
vessel. Abandon is more widely applicable than forsake or desert. The
Latin original of desert appears to have been originally applied to
the case of deserters from military service. Hence, the verb, when
used of persons in the active voice, has usually or always a bad
sense, implying some breach of fidelity, honor, etc., the leaving of
something which the person should rightfully stand by and support;
as, to desert one's colors, to desert one's post, to desert one's
principles or duty. When used in the passive, the sense is not
necessarily bad; as, the fields were deserted, a deserted village,
deserted halls. Forsake implies the breaking off of previous habit,
association, personal connection, or that the thing left had been
familiar or frequented; as, to forsake old friends, to forsake the
paths of rectitude, the blood forsook his cheeks. It may be used
either in a good or in a bad sense.

ABANDON
A*ban"don, n. Etym: [F. abandon. fr. abandonner. See Abandon, v.]

Defn: Abandonment; relinquishment. [Obs.]

ABANDON
A`ban`don", n. Etym: [F. See Abandon.]

Defn: A complete giving up to natural impulses; freedom from
artificial constraint; careless freedom or ease.

ABANDONED
A*ban"doned, a.

1. Forsaken, deserted. "Your abandoned streams." Thomson.

2. Self-abandoned, or given up to vice; extremely wicked, or sinning
without restraint; irreclaimably wicked ; as, an abandoned villain.

Syn.
 -- Profligate; dissolute; corrupt; vicious; depraved; reprobate;
wicked; unprincipled; graceless; vile.
 -- Abandoned, Profligate, Reprobate. These adjectives agree in
expressing the idea of great personal depravity. Profligate has
reference to open and shameless immoralities, either in private life
or political conduct; as, a profligate court, a profligate ministry.
Abandoned is stronger, and has reference to the searing of conscience
and hardening of heart produced by a man's giving himself wholly up
to iniquity; as, a man of abandoned character. Reprobate describes
the condition of one who has become insensible to reproof, and who is
morally abandoned and lost beyond hope of recovery.
God gave them over to a reprobate mind. Rom. i. 28.

ABANDONEDLY
A*ban"doned*ly, adv.

Defn: Unrestrainedly.

ABANDONEE
A*ban`don*ee", n. (Law)

Defn: One to whom anything is legally abandoned.

ABANDONER
A*ban"don*er, n.

Defn: One who abandons. Beau. & Fl.

ABANDONMENT
A*ban"don*ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. abandonnement.]

1. The act of abandoning, or the state of being abandoned; total
desertion; relinquishment.
The abandonment of the independence of Europe. Burke.

2. (Mar. Law)

Defn: The relinquishment by the insured to the underwriters of what
may remain of the property insured after a loss or damage by a peril
insured against.

3. (Com. Law)

Defn: (a) The relinquishment of a right, claim, or privilege, as to
mill site, etc. (b) The voluntary leaving of a person to whom one is
bound by a special relation, as a wife, husband, or child; desertion.

4. Careless freedom or ease; abandon. [R.] Carlyle.

ABANDUM
A*ban"*dum, n. Etym: [LL. See Abandon.] (Law)

Defn: Anything forfeited or confiscated.

ABANET
Ab"a*net, n.

Defn: See Abnet.

ABANGA
A*ban"ga, n. Etym: [Name given by the negroes in the island of St.
Thomas.]

Defn: A West Indian palm; also the fruit of this palm, the seeds of
which are used as a remedy for diseases of the chest.

ABANNATION; ABANNITION
Ab`an*na"tion, Ab`an*nition, n. Etym: [LL. abannatio; ad + LL.
bannire to banish.] (Old Law)

Defn: Banishment. [Obs.] Bailey.

ABARTICULATION
Ab`ar*tic`u*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. ab + E. articulation : cf. F.
abarticulation. See Article.] (Anat.)

Defn: Articulation, usually that kind of articulation which admits of
free motion in the joint; diarthrosis. Coxe.

ABASE
A*base", v.t. [imp.&p.p. Abased; p.pr. & vb. n. Abasing.] Etym: [F.
abaisser, LL. abassare, abbassare ; ad + bassare, fr. bassus low. See
Base, a.]

1. To lower or depress; to throw or cast down; as, to abase the eye.
[Archaic] Bacon.
Saying so, he abased his lance. Shelton.

2. To cast down or reduce low or lower, as in rank, office, condition
in life, or estimation of worthiness; to depress; to humble; to
degrade.
Whosoever exalteth himself shall be abased. Luke xiv. ll.

Syn.
 -- To Abase, Debase, Degrade. These words agree in the idea of
bringing down from a higher to a lower state. Abase has reference to
a bringing down in condition or feelings; as to abase one's self
before God. Debase has reference to the bringing down of a thing in
purity, or making it base. It is, therefore, always used in a bad
sense, as, to debase the coin of the kingdom, to debase the mind by
vicious indulgence, to debase one's style by coarse or vulgar
expressions. Degrade has reference to a bringing down from some
higher grade or from some standard. Thus, a priest is degraded from
the clerical office. When used in a moral sense, it denotes a
bringing down in character and just estimation; as, degraded by
intemperance, a degrading employment, etc. "Art is degraded when it
is regarded only as a trade."

ABASED
A*based", a.

1. Lowered; humbled.

2. (Her.) Etym: [F. abaissé.]

Defn: Borne lower than usual, as a fess; also, having the ends of the
wings turned downward towards the point of the shield.

ABASEDLY
A*bas"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: Abjectly; downcastly.

ABASEMENT
A*base"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. abaissement.]

Defn: The act of abasing, humbling, or bringing low; the state of
being abased or humbled; humiliation.

ABASER
A*bas"er, n.

Defn: He who, or that which, abases.

ABASH
A*bash", v.t. [imp. & p.p. Abashed; p.pr. & vb. n. Abashing.] Etym:
[OE. abaissen, abaisshen, abashen, OF.esbahir, F. ébahir, to
astonish, fr. L. ex + the interjection bah, expressing astonishment.
In OE. somewhat confused with abase. Cf. Finish.]

Defn: To destroy the self-possession of; to confuse or confound, as
by exciting suddenly a consciousness of guilt, mistake, or
inferiority; to put to shame; to disconcert; to discomfit.
Abashed, the devil stood, And felt how awful goodness is. Milton.
He was a man whom no check could abash. Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- To confuse; confound; disconcert; shame.
 -- To Abash, Confuse, Confound. Abash is a stronger word than
confuse, but not so strong as confound. We are abashed when struck
either with sudden shame or with a humbling sense of inferiority; as,
Peter was abashed in the presence of those who are greatly his
superiors. We are confused when, from some unexpected or startling
occurrence, we lose clearness of thought and self-possession. Thus, a
witness is often confused by a severe cross-examination; a timid
person is apt to be confused in entering a room full of strangers. We
are confounded when our minds are overwhelmed, as it were, by
something wholly unexpected, amazing, dreadful, etc., so that we have
nothing to say. Thus, a criminal is usually confounded at the
discovery of his guilt.
Satan stood Awhile as mute, confounded what to say. Milton.

ABASHEDLY
A*bash"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: In an abashed manner.

ABASHMENT
A*bash"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. ébahissement.]

Defn: The state of being abashed; confusion from shame.

ABASIA
A*ba"si*a, n. [NL.; Gr. - not +  a step.] (Med.)

Defn: Inability to coördinate muscular actions properly in walking. -
- A*ba"sic (#), a.

ABASSI; ABASSIS
A*bas"si, A*bas"sis, n. Etym: [Ar.& Per. abasi, belonging to Abas (a
king of Persia).]

Defn: A silver coin of Persia, worth about twenty cents.

ABATABLE
A*bat"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being abated; as, an abatable writ or nuisance.

ABATE
A*bate", v.t. [imp.& p.p. Abated, p.pr. & vb.n. Abating.] Etym: [OF.
abatre to beat down, F. abattre, LL. abatere; ab or ad + batere,
battere (popular form for L. batuere to beat). Cf. Bate, Batter.]

1. To beat down; to overthrow. [Obs.]
The King of Scots . . . sore abated the walls. Edw. Hall.

2. To bring down or reduce from a higher to a lower state, number, or
degree; to lessen; to diminish; to contract; to moderate; toto cut
short; as, to abate a demand; to abate pride, zeal, hope.
His eye was not dim, nor his natural force abated. Deut. xxxiv. 7.

3. To deduct; to omit; as, to abate something from a price.
Nine thousand parishes, abating the odd hundreds. Fuller.

4. To blunt. [Obs.]
To abate the edge of envy. Bacon.

5. To reduce in estimation; to deprive. [Obs.]
She hath abated me of half my train. Shak.

6. (Law)

Defn: (a) To bring entirely down or put an end to; to do away with;
as, to abate a nuisance, to abate a writ. (b) (Eng. Law) To diminish;
to reduce. Legacies are liable to be abated entirely or in
proportion, upon a deficiency of assets. To abate a tax, to remit it
either wholly or in part.

ABATE
A*bate", v.i. Etym: [See Abate, v.t.]

1. To decrease, or become less in strength or violence; as, pain
abates, a storm abates.
The fury of Glengarry . . . rapidly abated. Macaulay.

2. To be defeated, or come to naught; to fall through; to fail; as, a
writ abates. To abate into a freehold, To abate in lands (Law), to
enter into a freehold after the death of the last possessor, and
before the heir takes possession. See Abatement, 4.

Syn.
 -- To subside; decrease; intermit; decline; diminish; lessen.
 -- To Abate, Subside. These words, as here compared, imply a coming
down from some previously raised or exited state. Abate expresses
this in respect to degrees, and implies a diminution of force or of
intensity; as, the storm abates, the cold abates, the force of the
wind abates; or, the wind abates, a fever abates. Subside (to settle
down) has reference to a previous state of agitation or commotion;
as, the waves subside after a storm, the wind subsides into a calm.
When the words are used figuratively, the same distinction should be
observed. If we conceive of a thing as having different degrees of
intensity or strength, the word to be used is abate. Thus we say, a
man's anger abates, the ardor of one's love abates, "Winter rage
abates". But if the image be that of a sinking down into quiet from
preceding excitement or commotion, the word to be used is subside;
as, the tumult of the people subsides, the public mind subsided into
a calm. The same is the case with those emotions which are tumultuous
in their nature; as, his passion subsides, his joy quickly subsided,
his grief subsided into a pleasing melancholy. Yet if, in such cases,
we were thinking of the degree of violence of the emotion, we might
use abate; as, his joy will abate in the progress of time; and so in
other instances.

ABATE
A*bate, n.

Defn: Abatement. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

ABATEMENT
A*bate"ment, n. Etym: [OF. abatement, F. abattement.]

1. The act of abating, or the state of being abated; a lessening,
diminution, or reduction; removal or putting an end to; as, the
abatement of a nuisance is the suppression thereof.

2. The amount abated; that which is taken away by way of reduction;
deduction; decrease; a rebate or discount allowed.

3. (Her.)

Defn: A mark of dishonor on an escutcheon.

4. (Law)

Defn: The entry of a stranger, without right, into a freehold after
the death of the last possessor, before the heir or devisee.
Blackstone. Defense in abatement, Plea in abatement, (Law), plea to
the effect that from some formal defect (e.g. misnomer, want of
jurisdiction) the proceedings should be abated.

ABATER
A*bat"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, abates.

ABATIS; ABATTIS
Ab"a*tis, Aba"t*tis, n. Etym: [F. abatis, abattis, mass of things
beaten or cut down, fr. abattre. See Abate.] (Fort.)

Defn: A means of defense formed by felled trees, the ends of whose
branches are sharpened and directed outwards, or against the enemy.

ABATISED
Ab"a*tised, a.

Defn: Provided with an abatis.

ABATOR
A*ba"tor, n. (Law)

Defn: (a) One who abates a nuisance. (b) A person who, without right,
enters into a freehold on the death of the last possessor, before the
heir or devisee. Blackstone.

ABATTOIR
A`bat`toir", n.; pl. Abattoirs. Etym: [F., fr. abattre to beat down.
See Abate.]

Defn: A public slaughterhouse for cattle, sheep, etc.

ABATURE
Ab"a*ture, n. Etym: [F. abatture, fr. abattre. See Abate.]

Defn: Grass and sprigs beaten or trampled down by a stag passing
through them. Crabb.

ABATVOIX
A`bat`voix", n. Etym: [F. abattre to beat down + voix voice.]

Defn: The sounding-board over a pulpit or rostrum.

ABAWED
Ab*awed", p.p. Etym: [Perh. p.p. of a verb fr. OF. abaubir to
frighten, disconcert, fr. L. ad + balbus stammering.]

Defn: Astonished; abashed. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ABAXIAL; ABAXILE
Ab*ax"i*al, Ab*ax"ile, a. Etym: [L. ab + axis axle.] (Bot.)

Defn: Away from the axis or central line; eccentric. Balfour.

ABAY
A*bay", n. Etym: [OF. abay barking.]

Defn: Barking; baying of dogs upon their prey. See Bay. [Obs.]

ABB
Abb, n. Etym: [AS. aweb, ab; pref. a- + web. See Web.]

Defn: Among weaves, yarn for the warp. Hence, abb wool is wool for
the abb.

ABBA
Ab"ba, n. Etym: [Syriac abba father. See Abbot.]

Defn: Father; religious superior; -- in the Syriac, Coptic, and
Ethiopic churches, a title given to the bishops, and by the bishops
to the patriarch.

ABBACY
Ab"ba*cy, n.; pl. Abbacies. Etym: [L. abbatia, fr. abbas, abbatis,
abbot. See Abbey.]

Defn: The dignity, estate, or jurisdiction of an abbot.

ABBATIAL
Ab*ba"tial, a. Etym: [LL. abbatialis : cf. F. abbatial.]

Defn: Belonging to an abbey; as, abbatial rights.

ABBATICAL
Ab*bat"ic*al, a.

Defn: Abbatial. [Obs.]

ABBE
Ab"bé`, n.Etym: [F. abbé. See Abbot.]

Defn: The French word answering to the English abbot, the head of an
abbey; but commonly a title of respect given in France to every one
vested with the ecclesiastical habit or dress.

Note: * After the 16th century, the name was given, in social
parlance, to candidates for some priory or abbey in the gift of the
crown. Many of these aspirants became well known in literary and
fashionable life. By further extension, the name came to be applied
to unbeneficed secular ecclesiastics generally. Littré.

ABBESS
Ab"bess, n. Etym: [OF.abaesse, abeesse, F. abbesse, L. abbatissa,
fem. of abbas, abbatis, abbot. See Abbot.]

Defn: A female superior or governess of a nunnery, or convent of
nuns, having the same authority over the nuns which the abbots have
over the monks. See Abbey.

ABBEY
Ab"bey, n.; pl. Abbeys. Etym: [OF. abaïe, F. abbaye, L. abbatia, fr.
abbas abbot. See Abbot.]

1. A monastery or society of persons of either sex, secluded from the
world and devoted to religion and celibacy; also, the monastic
building or buildings.

Note: The men are called monks, and governed by an abbot; the women
are called nuns, and governed by an abbess.

2. The church of a monastery.

Note: In London, the Abbey means Westminster Abbey, and in Scotland,
the precincts of the Abbey of Holyrood. The name is also retained for
a private residence on the site of an abbey; as, Newstead Abbey, the
residence of Lord Byron.

Syn.
 -- Monastery; convent; nunnery; priory; cloister. See Cloister.

ABBOT
Ab"bot, n. Etym: [AS. abbod, abbad, L. abbas, abbatis, Gr. abba
father. Cf. Abba, AbbÉ.]

1. The superior or head of an abbey.

2. One of a class of bishops whose sees were formerly abbeys. Encyc.
Brit. Abbot of the people. a title formerly given to one of the chief
magistrates in Genoa.
 -- Abbot of Misrule (or Lord of Misrule), in mediæval times, the
master of revels, as at Christmas; in Scotland called the Abbot of
Unreason. Encyc. Brit.

ABBOTSHIP
Ab"bot*ship, n. Etym: [Abbot + -ship.]

Defn: The state or office of an abbot.

ABBREVIATE
Ab*bre"vi*ate, v.t. [imp. & p.p. Abbreviated; p.pr. & vb.n.
Abbreviating.] Etym: [L. abbreviatus, p.p. of abbreviare; ad +
breviare to shorten, fr. brevis short. See Abridge.]

1. To make briefer; to shorten; to abridge; to reduce by contraction
or omission, especially of words written or spoken.
It is one thing to abbreviate by contracting, another by cutting off.
Bacon.

2. (Math.)

Defn: To reduce to lower terms, as a fraction.

ABBREVIATE
Ab*bre"vi*ate, a. Etym: [L. abbreviatus, p.p.]

1. Abbreviated; abridged; shortened. [R.] "The abbreviate form."
Earle.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: Having one part relatively shorter than another or than the
ordinary type.

ABBREVIATE
Ab*bre"vi*ate, n.

Defn: An abridgment. [Obs.] Elyot.

ABBREVIATED
Ab*bre"vi*a`ted, a.

Defn: Shortened; relatively short; abbreviate.

ABBREVIATION
Ab*bre`vi*a"tion, n. Etym: [LL. abbreviatio: cf. F. abbréviation.]

1. The act of shortening, or reducing.

2. The result of abbreviating; an abridgment. Tylor.

3. The form to which a word or phrase is reduced by contraction and
omission; a letter or letters, standing for a word or phrase of which
they are a part; as, Gen. for Genesis; U.S.A. for United States of
America.

4. (Mus.)

Defn: One dash, or more, through the stem of a note, dividing it
respectively into quavers, semiquavers, or demi-semiquavers. Moore.

ABBREVIATOR
Ab*bre"vi*a`tor, n. Etym: [LL.: cf. F. abbréviateur.]

1. One who abbreviates or shortens.

2. One of a college of seventy-two officers of the papal court whose
duty is to make a short minute of a decision on a petition, or reply
of the pope to a letter, and afterwards expand the minute into
official form.

ABBREVIATORY
Ab*bre"vi*a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Serving or tending to abbreviate; shortening; abridging.

ABBREVIATURE
Ab*bre"vi*a*ture, n.

1. An abbreviation; an abbreviated state or form. [Obs.]

2. An abridgment; a compendium or abstract.
This is an excellent abbreviature of the whole duty of a Christian.
Jer. Taylor.

ABB WOOL
Abb" wool.

Defn: See Abb.

A B C
A B C".

1. The first three letters of the alphabet, used for the whole
alphabet.

2. A primer for teaching the alphabet and first elements of reading.
[Obs.]

3. The simplest rudiments of any subject; as, the A B C of finance. A
B C book, a primer. Shak.